This is the January 2018 edition of JW Broadcasting.
Welcome one and all.
As Mark Newmer explained last month,
the governing body has approved the annual meeting of
the Pennsylvania Corporation to be broadcast each year
as a monthly JW Broadcasting Program.
In this way, more translation teams around the world will have
the resources to make this program available to
viewers in many more languages.
This annual meeting was indeed special.
It was held on October 7th, 2017.
Since it also included the dedication of many United States
branch buildings and the dedication of the World Headquarters
complex, it was presented from the Bethel Auditorium and
Warwick, New York.
Brother Jeffrey Jackson of the governing body was the
chairman.
The monthly program you're about to see
consists of the dedication-related aspects of the event.
I'm sure you will enjoy the program.
We're going to start off by asking you a question.
In fact, the governing body has directed me to ask the
English-speaking brothers this question.
What if?
What if, during brother Smollie's prayer, he said,
and we pray for the vindication of your name?
How would you have reacted?
Oh, no.
Feel sorry for Jean.
Mm-hmm.
Well, it's true in English, over the years, we have
tended to be very careful, haven't we, about saying the
sanctification of Jehovah's name and the vindication of his
sovereignty.
But is it necessarily wrong for us to say that Jehovah's name
could be vindicated?
Well, back in 1965, the Wake magazine answered, yes, it
would be wrong.
Then in 1995, the watchtower made the point that it re-emphasized
that.
It said, no one's questioning Jehovah's name.
So there's no need to vindicate that name.
But the more we look at this subject, the more we see a need
to adjust our understanding, particularly in English.
So let's think about the words associated with this problem.
First of all, sanctify.
What does sanctify mean?
Well, it means to make holy or to treat something as holy.
And it's very appropriate, isn't it, that we pray for the
sanctification of Jehovah's name.
That's exactly what Jesus told us to do.
Let your name be sanctified.
So you can relax.
There's no change with regard to that.
But what about the word vindicate?
Well, vindicate usually indicates exonerating or proving
that someone is correct in something they've done.
Perhaps they've been criticized, and then they've proved
to be true or correct.
And what about the word name?
Does it just refer to an identification or a label?
Well, that's usually not the case in the Bible, is it?
It oftentimes refers to the reputation of the person, not
just their identifying name or label.
For example, in Proverbs chapter 22 verse 1, it tells us
a good name is to be chosen rather than great wealth.
Now in that case, name is referring to the reputation
of the person.
So let's think for a few minutes.
What really has Satan criticized down through time?
Well, first of all, he's criticized Jehovah's reputation,
his name.
And secondly, he has criticized the rightfulness of Jehovah's
sovereignty, or in other words, the way of ruling.
So really, both of these things, Jehovah's reputation
and his way of ruling need to be vindicated.
Satan has tried to besmirch the holy name of Jehovah
in many ways, one way is by painting
him as a vengeful harsh God, or in the churches
of Christen and believing that he is a God that burns people
in a fiery hell.
Or in the scriptures, we see him implying that Jehovah
is a liar who holds back good things from his creatures.
Well, in that case, we can see that Jehovah's name or reputation
does need to be exonerated, or in other words, vindicated.
So in summary, Jehovah's sovereignty certainly
needs to be vindicated, as we've always said.
But also his name as a loving God, his reputation
needs to be vindicated.
So it's not wrong for us to say that these actions of vindicating
Jehovah's sovereignty, vindicating his name
lead to the sanctification of his name.
Now, at this point, you're trying to think,
what does that mean?
Simply put, it's not wrong to say,
we pray for the vindication of Jehovah's name,
because his reputation certainly needs to be exonerated.
And what a privilege we have to be part of that.
Well, what a way to start the annual meeting right
off the block, new understanding.
So if this is how we're going to start with the Germans
and saying a few words, what else is on the program?
Well, we're looking forward to seeing what we can enjoy.
Well, when we think of this matter of the dedication program,
I'm sure you do appreciate that it's impossible for us
to tell every story of every experience
of how our brothers and sisters have seen Jehovah's
hand help them, either in their personal lives
or in the actual construction work.
In just a few moments' time, we're
going to have an opportunity to see, especially prepared video,
that will tell us some of those stories.
But this video is mainly designed to tell us
about what happened with the construction here at Warwick.
But before we start to watch the video,
the governing body asks me to express appreciation
on their behalf for a very special group
of brothers and sisters who we're talking about.
Well, those thousands of brothers and sisters
who were working on all the other projects
that were being either built or renovated
at the same time as the Warwick project.
So sometimes we focus on Warwick,
but all these other brothers and sisters
were likewise making similar sacrifices.
And some of those projects were huge.
For example, Warkill, over 1.1 million square feet
of facilities were either built or renovated
or remodeled at Warkill.
And 302 residents rooms were added.
This required 25,000 sheets of drywall to be hung.
And over 451,000 feet of electrical wire cables
to be installed.
Additionally, new office space was made for 240 people.
Now, when they added up how many brothers and sisters
actually helped with just the Warkill project,
they came up with a figure of over 6,000
different individuals.
Then the brothers at one stage started a Saturday work program
that was designed to give extra help to the project.
And the better lights who have other assignments
who in their spare time offered to give this extra help
on a Saturday numbered 1,544.
And they put in over 10,000 hours of work.
Then we had 937 outside volunteers
from 20 different states here in the United States
who contributed some 18,000 hours.
So a lot of work went into renovating and building
there at Warkill.
But what about the quality of the work there?
Was it any less?
No.
In fact, the F residents and the Warkill office building
received the highest award of four green lobes
from the Green Building Initiative.
That's the GBI.
That was back in 2015.
Now, at that time, a project manager of GBI
said of the 23 buildings in the United States
that have been certified with four green lobes since 2006.
The Watchtower Warkill office building
achieved the highest point score with 94%.
Now, of course, since 2015, other buildings
have also received these four green lobes.
But remember, also among those buildings
have received all seven buildings here at Warwick.
Well, we could go on and on about your hovers blessings
with regard to the Warkill project.
But let's just take one example.
The Warkill Chiller project that started in December of 2010.
It was critical the brothers tell us
to get the new Chiller's operational no later
than the first week in the following July.
But there was a problem because they
wanted to make sure the presses would continue to operate.
This is how one of the brothers expressed what happened.
He said, by mid-June, I remember July,
they had to have the chillers up and running,
things started to get critical due to the lack of response
from the specialist from the chiller fabricator.
The purchasing department called repeatedly,
but were unable to get a commitment
from the fabricator to meet our deadlines.
So what did the brothers do?
Well, they made it a matter of fervent and urgent prayer.
What happened, the brother continues.
A few days later, I received a phone call telling me
that there was a man from the chiller fabricator waiting
for me in the main lobby.
He wanted to quickly see our startup schedule
and our installations and then give us a list of things
we needed to complete.
We explained that everything was ready
and we needed to begin the startup in two weeks.
Well, he went for a visit.
As he walked through the factories he was amazed.
He said he has never seen an installation in all the 20 years
that he's been doing this that was
ready to start on the first visit.
Then as he was continuing to be amazed,
he said to the brother, let me know who your insulators are.
I want to hire them.
Well, the brother said very wisely.
He didn't tell him until later that most of the work was done
by his sisters, many of whom had no experience at all.
We didn't say telling that because we didn't want him
to steal him away to other projects.
The brother then goes on to say,
eventually he got enough courage to ask him,
well, what caused you to actually come to the lobby that day?
Well, the man said he'd received an urgent trouble call
from another customer in a nearby town.
So he decided he'd just stopped by Watchtower on the way.
He then said the trouble called turned out
to be a false alarm.
Well, the chiller started on schedule
and everything was operating according to plan.
So that's just one of many.
Now believe me, they sent me reams of papers of experiences.
And those that I didn't use, please forgive me.
But over and over again, we see the brothers
expressing how they appreciated the opportunity
to work on the Woke Hill project as well as the other projects
and how they saw Jehovah's Hand blessing them
as many of them sold homes, simplified their lives,
or put their lives on hold so that they could be here with us.
So to all those brothers and sisters
who were working on all the peripheral projects,
we want to say to you, thank you,
thank you from the bottom of our hearts.
And now we have an opportunity to watch a video
that's going to have an interview with the CPC,
who are the CPC, the construction project committee
who organized the work here at Woke.
Isaiah chapter 40 and verse 12 gives us a glimpse
into the power and the breadth of Jehovah's Hand.
Remember, that's where it says that Jehovah
holds all the water in the hollow of his hand.
He can measure the universe with the span of his hand.
And while this is figurative,
it helps us to appreciate what Jehovah can accomplish
to make sure his will takes place.
But when we look at the beautiful warwick project,
we truly see that Jehovah's Hand was involved
in what took place there.
Now last year, you remember at the annual meeting,
we had the interview of the five brothers
who made up the construction project committee.
And those brothers were the ones who oversaw
and coordinated the work of that project.
And they explained how the warwick project took place.
Well, this year at this special dedication program,
we are again going to interview these dear brothers.
And this time, they're going to tell us their experiences
and experiences that they had that convinced them
that Jehovah's Hand was in this project.
Well, we've got some really touching experiences
to relate about ones who really sacrificed
in order to volunteer on the project
and how their family supported them.
They're really going to be beautiful.
And we also have some good experiences
in regards to how the work was accomplished
and seeing Jehovah's Hand.
And lastly, we're going to see how Jehovah's Hand
was really shown even in non-believers
in what they experienced and how the work was accomplished.
Let's get started with the aspect of how
those who came to work on the project
saw Jehovah's Hand.
And I think Rich, you had an overarching comment
that really convinced you of this.
Despite challenging weather and long commutes,
difficult living situations, hard jobs,
our brothers manifested the fruitage of the spirit.
You could see that at work
and you knew Jehovah was working with them
and motivating their work.
And it really made the project something very special.
One couple had decided that with their circumstances
and their finances that for a maximum
they could come and work for three weeks
on the project, which they did.
But during the third week, they were asked
if they could possibly extend to a fourth week.
So they prayed to Jehovah, please just give us joy,
help us not have anxiety about this.
Even though our finances will be at zero,
we want to stay the fourth week.
They did, went on their way home,
packed the airport and at the departure gate,
there was an announcement that the flight was over booked.
They were looking for volunteers to take a later flight.
And in compensation, the airline would give
a very significant amount of cash.
Well, they took the cash no longer had their finances at zero.
But that's not where they felt Jehovah's Hand.
They felt that that last week,
the joy while they were working
and not having the anxiety
over what the final outcome might be.
I'll never forget the night the Troy called in our room
and said that one of our volunteers
that were going to be arriving,
they were fixing a tire alongside the road back at their home.
And the brother's young wife was holding the flashlight,
car veered off the road,
hit her, killed her right in front of him.
Yeah, he'd already been invited
and already scheduled to come.
But when this happened, we didn't expect him to come.
Then we reassured him that it's okay
to stay back and handle matters.
He was determined to come.
What was amazing was to see how Jehovah
helped him during that time.
His overseers that were assigned to care for him
and the department he worked with, they rallied to him.
And in the end, he says he felt that this experience
helped him to recover emotionally, spiritually,
and he saw Jehovah's blessings in it.
And it gave him pure evidence
that Jehovah's promises will come true.
A brother came for a week,
but his wife was back home with very serious health problems.
The wife told her husband, you must go.
You must go, this is the way I can make a sacrifice
to the project.
So seeing Jehovah's hand on sisters like that
and their self-sacrificing spirit,
it made us feel like those sisters
were right there working on the project.
As we got into the project,
as it became evident that this project really was
only going to get done as a result of Jehovah's spirit,
we saw our brothers transform themselves.
They recognized that we were first and foremost spiritual men.
We needed Jehovah's blessing.
So before meeting started, the brothers would get together
and say a prayer.
It was clear to everyone who was only
going to be as a result of Jehovah's spirit
that this project was going to get done.
These overseers quickly became known
not for their trade skills, but for being shepherds.
They looked out for the brothers and sisters.
They cared about them.
So as a committee, we assign shepherding calls
to ourselves three to four months
and along with other shepherding within our departments.
But you would see these dear brothers and sisters come in
at the end of a day for a shepherding call,
dirt or grease from head to toe,
cold, gloves on, ear warmers, huge smiles.
You could just feel that Jehovah was just lifting us up
and moving us along another day.
It was quite an experience.
It was as if Jehovah was telling us
a spirituality is more important
in each other than accomplishing the work.
And that really helped us to see where our priority should be.
We found that as long as we looked out for the friends,
spiritually and emotionally as best we could,
they did far and above anything we could have ever hoped for.
It really was a wonderful example.
How they responded to a spiritual atmosphere.
Troy, how about the local brothers and sisters?
They had a good share, too.
The local brothers and sisters
and the congregations surrounding the project were tremendous.
Quite a few would come in early in the morning
to help guide the buses to their parking spots,
to provide safe walkways, to direct traffic and parking.
And they would get up very early, freezing cold temperatures.
They would have breakfast and then they would have to go
off to their secular work and taking care of their daily lives.
It was really a good example of self-sacrifice.
Another thing that they did, which was just outstanding,
is we had up to 700 trips to the airport on a given weekend.
Volunteers coming, volunteers going.
And it was constant for years at a time.
And yet most of those airport runs were done by our local friends,
even using their own vehicles.
Now you brought this porch yourself out on the project.
You personally saw Jehovah's Hand helping you,
just when you needed it the most.
Could you share a few of those?
I remember an instance where we were meeting
with a governing body member on something else.
In the conversation, it just lent itself to the question,
just what was it that made him or the rest of the governing body
so convinced that this project was going to get done
on time?
And he explained, during the acquisition of the property,
they had established terms in the acquisition
that for them was a sort of a coal test.
And Jehovah fulfilled the test exactly as they expected.
And from that point on, he mentioned that he himself
and every one of the members of the governing body to a man
were firmly convinced that it was Jehovah's will
to move from Brooklyn to Warwick.
I needed to transmit that confidence to the brothers
on the project as well.
We were getting ready to step off the bridge
so to speak and some big decisions
that we weren't going to be able to retract.
Big dollars that were going to be spent for product
that we weren't going to be able to send back,
we needed more faith.
I can remember two instances in particular
where I personally was discouraged,
and you can kind of see it in our family.
And in both those times, a governing body member
showed up unscheduled and visited
and made personal expressions to us, expressions to the family.
And it was just what we needed to keep us going.
But now let's change our thought a little bit.
We also talked about how you sewed Jehovah's hand
and how the work was accomplished.
Jehovah caused our brothers to become not only good tradesmen,
but world class expert tradesmen.
It was very common to see them take off their hard hats
and say a group prayer.
They realized it was a part of their worship
and it facilitated Jehovah's hand
to be expressed through their work as well.
Then you notice Rick, they felt a real need
to have Jehovah's spirit,
to be able to do what they needed to do.
So they would look for an opportunity to pray
before they tried to accomplish something.
That feeling that they really cured
and it was part of their worship
was even reflected in the prayerful attitude
with which they went about the work.
We would often inform the family
of a difficult challenge or problem
that we were facing either as a committee or as a project.
We would ask them to pray about it.
And they would come back and tell us,
I've been praying about this.
And then we would hear their families back home
were praying about it.
And we would regularly get cards and letters from the field.
Family worship projects.
The kids would draw pictures and send them to us.
And they put care packages, hundreds of them together.
We even got cards and letters from all over the world,
Japan, Australia, and Europe.
One sister from Europe sent about 65 pounds of Swiss chocolate
for the family to enjoy.
And Rick, remember our infamous Friday afternoon,
design, coordination, and construction meeting every time
after prayer would start the same way.
We don't have what we need, brothers, to work next week.
We don't have sufficient enough drawings.
Rick would be there working.
He'd be back and forth emailing with other ones.
He'd be getting stuff sent in.
We would conclude that meeting at five o'clock on a Friday
every time with, you know what?
We have enough to work till next Friday.
And they're poor Rick.
They would go again the following Friday.
We'd start back up again, but Jehovah would give us
what we needed.
As if it was telling us, don't worry, I've got this.
I've got it under control.
Just keep working.
You also mentioned some comments regarding the use
of the construction groups and how that came about.
We had the most qualified people you could ever find
there ready to go to work.
We simply didn't have enough of them.
It was a matter of numbers.
And so the committee charged a couple of us
to look in and see what could we do
to mobilize the nation in an organized way.
All we had was a Saturday afternoon.
And I thought, this isn't enough time.
You can't organize this effort.
We sat down at 1.30 by 3 p.m.
What would become known as the Warwick construction group effort.
Jehovah built it.
He laid it out in front of us.
How each building would be cared for.
Yeah, did we adjust a few things
if we went along?
Absolutely.
But that was the framework.
We divided the country up into 11 different areas.
We appointed three brothers in each area that
would kind of help identify the volunteers and bring them.
Reach out to the volunteers.
Tell them we need them.
Explain the work ahead of time.
And it was really an amazing arrangement
of the 27,000 volunteers that we had on site.
21,000 were organized and sent to Warwick
by these 11 construction groups.
So they would do any initial training
that they needed to do and get organized
so that they could come to Warwick and hit the ground running.
Do you remember when we had the challenge
with pipe insulation?
How many miles of pipes do we have?
Hundreds of miles of pipes to insulate.
That was a trade that really didn't
exist among the brotherhood in the United States,
at least not nearly the number we would need.
And so our construction group brothers
said, well, how hard can it be?
Will put on training programs?
And so one or two, I think, came to Bethel
saw how it was done.
The group started putting on training in the field at a kingdom hall
or at a brother's home.
And they trained about 2,000 volunteers,
how to do pipe insulation, mostly sisters.
And they did all of that work.
And they did a really professional job at it.
I think that also speaks to how the role
the sisters played on our project.
The ones that were assigned there, the ones in the field
that were coming in, they played a tremendous role.
We sought Jehovah's Spirit on them
in helping us resolve problems and accomplishing
the work and so forth.
So with our training programs and orientation,
the brothers quickly understood that safety and spirituality
is a personal expression between them and Jehovah first.
Safety is a spiritual value.
It's something that we owe our brothers and sisters,
we owe our families.
We owe to Jehovah who is the source of life.
We had many non-believers involved in this project.
How did they even get to see Jehovah's hand in this?
We were meeting with different officials
on a particular aspect of the project.
And we had a bit of a difference of opinion
as to what would be needed.
But we really were not able to reach an agreement
with the officials.
At that point, we realized taking the secular technical approach
wasn't going to work.
Push the plans aside, set a silent prayer,
and then just ask the officials, what can we do
to address your concerns?
What would you like to see us do?
That changed the tone of a discussion.
It changed from a technical base discussion to more.
We're here to work together as neighbors,
to come to a common accord.
And we eventually worked out a compromise
that met their concerns.
A few weeks later, we were back in front of the same officials,
but on a totally different subject.
But before we could even present what we were there
to talk about, they stopped us and they just wanted
to commend us for how good the last meeting we had went.
We were looking at each other because we didn't think
it went that well.
But they pointed out how they felt that they were dignified
and they really appreciated the way we worked with them.
So it became clear to us that this project
wasn't entirely about technical issues,
but really about manifesting to hove his hand
through the footage of the spirit
as we even dealt with the officials.
We had our fuel truck that was in a local shop
getting repaired.
And the fuel truck is critical for our project
because at four o'clock in the morning, 4.30,
our brothers are out there to fuel the equipment.
So we can get the work done that day.
They called it to go pick it up.
And the gentleman told him, sorry, we're closed.
What project are you on?
And he says, well, with the work project here,
which hove is witnesses of watch tower.
He goes, oh, watch tower.
Oh, no problem.
I'm going to leave the gate open.
I'm going to show you where the keys are.
I'll have it there for you.
And you can take the vehicle.
He says, I trust you people.
One of the bus drivers, he showed up late one morning.
And then he explained why he was late.
He had been assigned the wrong bus that morning.
And his dispatcher made him come back and switch buses.
He says, I was so mad at him.
I told him, these people are working for God.
They're not getting paid.
They have to get to work on time.
They have to do this work.
He then told the friends.
He says, I know I'm going to be one of Jehovah's Witnesses
one day.
I'm going to serve my God, Jehovah.
And then he sat down.
He drove the friends to work.
A brother was out in the ministry.
And he knocks on the gentleman's door.
The gentleman comes and starts his presentation.
And interrupts him and says, have you been to Warwick?
And the brother steps back and, well, no one's allowed
to warwick.
It's under construction.
He goes, no, I've been there.
I worked there.
And it was very clean, organized,
and the people were the most friendliest people I've ever seen.
It was the best experience of my life
to work on that project.
One of the jobs was to pull in this main feeder,
this main electrical line, into the complex, very
technical piece.
And so we had that scheduled for December 24th.
And there was a little bit of an aversion on the point
of the contractors that wanted to be able to monitor
when this was going in.
And we said, no, I'm sorry.
This is the date we need to do this.
We're on a day-to-day schedule.
We need to accomplish, well, who's going to do it?
Well, as you know, we use women a lot on this site.
And this is a crew of sisters.
Well, I can't believe that.
That's a heavy line.
And that can't be striking in the ground.
It's fragile until it gets into the conduit.
He said, well, I wasn't working tomorrow.
I'm going to call my wife, and I'm going to come in tomorrow
anyway.
Sure enough, he came in, spent a couple hours there.
Our sisters, as usual, did phenomenal work,
pulled the line in, got it done.
Do you remember how long it took them to the war?
Two hours.
They had to pull in.
Two hours?
Yeah, it was just phenomenal.
He just shook his head and went home.
We hired the largest contractor in that part of New York State
to perform a significant amount of work on site.
And toward the end of the project, the head of that company
told us, he said, when you first came to us,
and you described what you were going to build
and the size of it.
And then you told us the schedule that you were hoping to meet.
And then you told us you were going to do it with volunteers.
He said, when we were happy to take your money,
but when you left, we were literally laughing at you.
We knew there was no way you could ever
do this much construction in that short of a time,
let alone with volunteers, and that this was going
to be a disaster.
We're not laughing anymore.
So they could see Jehovah's Hand on that project.
Well, we thank all of you for those very, very encouraging
experiences.
It makes us think of Isaiah chapter 59, verse 1, which
reminds us that Jehovah's Hand is not too short
to accomplish as well.
And this is truly evident on this project.
And I know you, brothers, would as well as all of us
to thank all who had a share in this,
all those who physically came here to volunteer,
the local brothers and sisters who supported all from home
and everybody with their prayers, we truly appreciate that.
And we'd also like to thank you, five brothers,
and the sacrifices that you and your wives
made during this project.
And another evidence for me that Jehovah's Hand
was in this project is, you five brothers
are all friends.
And just interacting with one another and being with you,
you could see that that's evidence of Jehovah's Spirit.
But ultimately, our thanks goes to Jehovah
for what took place because we know he, ultimately,
was behind the success of this project.
And we're very thankful that all of us
had a chance to witness a Jehovah's Hand
in action in what took place.
Well, that certainly was a beautiful experience, wasn't it?
And for those of us that are visiting here,
if you meet someone who worked on the project,
make sure to ask them, how did you
see Jehovah's Hand in helping you personally
and in the project?
And you may be surprised at what stories you learn
by asking that question.
Well, at this point, what we're going to do
is something a little different and interactive exam or test
to see who qualifies to remain in the auditorium for that.
Now, what we'd like you to do is, first of all,
you have to answer the question, how many facilities
are being dedicated today?
Then list them in alphabetical order.
Well, you know, we're not going to do that to you.
But that little wire you felt will be a leg
when you watched the next video, which
tells you about the facilities that are going to be dedicated.
To support the kingdom work, expansion
has recently been underway within the United States.
This involves the construction of the new world headquarters
at Warwick, along with 15 other buildings
being dedicated at the 2017 annual meeting.
Let's visit each site and see how these buildings
affect us in our kingdom service and ultimately
bring praise to Jehovah.
Videos have become an important tool in our worship
and so the need to produce them faster
and in greater quantity has risen dramatically.
Five years ago, the department produced one feature film
each year, along with a handful of smaller videos.
During 2016, that number grew to more than 350 productions.
The existing facilities in Patterson
consisted of three smaller studios.
To produce more content simultaneously,
a larger production space with multiple stages was needed.
In early 2015, on Mount Ibo Road,
a large building less than five miles away from Patterson
was acquired.
Originally built as a pharmaceutical warehouse,
the building had more than 70,000 square feet of open space.
Work began to convert the warehouse
into one large sound stage and two smaller stages.
Renovations were completed in December 2016.
The request for videos is certainly not slowing down.
It's increasing.
So we have scheduled for 2017 around 420 videos
that will be used for various aspects of the organization.
So we have seen the need to have increased personnel,
increased facilities to accommodate all these requests.
So we can see that Jehovah has raised up brothers and sisters,
or gifts and men and women,
that have been able to help produce the beautiful music
we have, the videos that are touching minds and hearts.
Just one mile away from Mount Ibo,
a 12,000 square foot building was purchased
and converted into a carpentry shop for building props and sets.
The mountain view apartments were also purchased and renovated,
providing housing for 100 Bethel family members.
From the oversight of congregations and meeting arrangements
to territory assignments and other aspects of the preaching work,
kingdom activities are overseen by the Branch Committee
with direction provided by the Service Department.
In the United States branch,
there was a need for expanded facilities
to house these departments at Wal-Kill.
The work for the Wal-Kill Expansion Project
was basically completed in November of 2015.
It involved new construction for residence buildings,
the new F Garage, and the new office building.
So between the new and the renovated facilities,
it was over 1,000,000 and 18,000 square feet.
You had to remember, too, at the same time,
all the departments are still running.
You know, meanwhile, all these buildings
are going up around us.
I'm sure it didn't appear this way to the workers,
but to us, it was like it was on a high-speed video
at the rate that it went up.
It was incredible.
It wasn't just their skills and expertise that they brought.
It was their zeal, it was their joy,
it was their positive attitude
that they were able to maintain
even despite the heavy workload.
And that engenders appreciation and zeal
among all of those who've come in contact with them.
Many are taking advantage of tools such as JW Library
and the JW Language App to read, study, and teach the Bible.
The increased use of technologies like these
has created the need for more computer engineers
and other personnel to design, develop, and test this software.
Workspace and housing for these volunteers
is now being provided at the Rivercrest Department
Complex in Fishkill.
Another important concern of the United States branch
involves caring for senior members of the Bethel family.
To meet that need, work was completed in 2016
on Congregate North and South.
Congregate living is really home care.
Home care for the most precious ones among our Bethel family.
We're surrounded by many wonderful brothers and sisters
who are very hard working and care so much about us.
And this is such my heart.
Blessings are being able to be with friends
that we've known for years.
It's like a reunion that doesn't stop.
So hope is really taking good care of all of them.
The care that our dear older ones receive is outstanding.
And it's true that we have people who care, but there's a reason.
It reflects Jehovah's view of older ones.
He says in Isaiah 46-4,
until you grow old, I will carry you.
And that's how those who've been trained by Jehovah
treats the older ones.
So it's really a loving atmosphere that they're in.
To receive and store building materials,
a 220,000 square foot warehouse was purchased in 2014
in Montgomery, New York.
At the Montgomery warehouse, materials
were staged and residential bathrooms for warwick
were prefabricated, speeding up construction on site.
The warehouse continues to be used as a storage facility
for both the US branch and the World Headquarters.
In 2014, two hotels were purchased.
Newberg Center A and Newberg Center B.
Being centrally located between all three sites,
these hotels have been ideal for housing temporary workers
and hosting guests, visiting the Bethel facilities.
These hotels were great help for the workers.
They were going to be now closer to the project
before with that long commute from Brooklyn.
On the bus, I was tiring by the time they got to work.
But now they were closer so they could get a little more rest
in the evenings in the mornings and be more productive.
These workers are lovable.
You have to love them.
You think about all the sacrifices they left homes,
told homes, left jobs, businesses, a family, friends,
their pets.
You thank them, but they thank you.
They thank you for the privilege of coming,
even though they're the ones that made so many sacrifices.
So they're an encouragement to the rest of us.
The plan to relocate the world headquarters to Warwick
goes back more than eight years
when we first purchased this 253 acre property,
50 miles northwest of Brooklyn.
Some of the reasons that Brooklyn was so advantageous,
no longer are such a key role for us.
And then just the fact of living in a city
that continues to get bigger and bigger,
it created more and more complications, more costs.
But I often think, even so,
the real reason we moved out of Brooklyn
is what the governing body has said from the beginning,
that they are convinced Jehovah's Spirit directed them
to move out of Brooklyn,
and to come up here to Warwick, New York.
And we're looking forward, at some point in time,
we're gonna look back and we're gonna say,
what are all the other reasons why Jehovah directed that
to take place?
The Warwick property included a number of abandoned buildings
that needed to be demolished and removed.
Once the site was cleared and plans were approved,
construction began on July 29, 2013,
and moved at a remarkable pace.
About 4,000 a day were coming to the site,
over 27,000 of our brothers and sisters worked here.
Then you had everybody in Bethel from the governing body,
all the way down to departments,
everybody was united in making this project a success.
And there were challenges,
but they would be settled in peace and love
and all the qualities of Jehovah's Spirit.
That is a modern day miracle,
especially when you think about the world we're living
and that is so fragmented and lack of unity.
And so you look at that,
it just makes you so proud to be part of this organization.
I remember the first time visiting Warwick
after a completion.
I call it a happy sad moment,
happy because now the buildings were gonna be used
for the intended purpose,
but sad because you didn't see the high-vis vest anymore.
It was a beautiful scene with all those colorful vests
and now you didn't see them, so I was sad.
You get choked up, you realize that behind every vest
it was a beautiful kingdom story and you missed them.
The environment here at Warwick is just beautiful.
It's quiet, it's refreshing.
And it makes me really appreciate
Jehovah's creation around us.
It's beautiful to be here
and I thank Jehovah for the privilege.
Warwick is a complex of eight buildings,
more than a million and a half square feet of construction.
Bethel Housing is provided in four residence buildings
with 569 rooms along with another residence
in nearby Sterling Forest with another 21 rooms.
And just a short distance away is the Tuxedo facility,
Computer Department Engineering
and the Broadcasting Studio are located here
where the monthly broadcast is produced
and now made available in over 130 languages.
The Office Services Building primarily serves as the hub
for most World Headquarters functions.
The building also includes three exhibits
where visitors can take self-guided tours.
The Bible and the Divine Name,
which features rare Bibles and highlights
how God's Name has been preserved in the Scriptures.
The exhibit, a people for Jehovah's Name,
a visual history of Jehovah's Witnesses
and World Headquarters Faith in Action,
which explains how witnesses are organized
to study, teach and live by what we learn in the Bible.
You travel anywhere in the United States branch
or internationally for that matter
and there's someone who has worked on Warwick.
And the feeling that you get is,
Warwick is not the World Headquarters,
it's our World Headquarters.
I've heard a number say, when they go back home,
they're never gonna be the same.
Some have simplified, so they've moved from a big house
to an apartment, others have started pioneering,
so that's what they're gonna do.
It's really been a witness to the witnesses.
Jehovah looks for opportunity to bless his people
that makes him happy and you turn it around now
and you look at all the work that's gone into this.
When he sees all those who volunteer
to come on the project,
all of our brothers and sisters around the world
who made donations, those who included it in their prayers,
those who helped others to come.
How proud that must make Jehovah
and he's just looking to bless them for that.
I sometimes try to imagine the conversations in heaven
between the angels and the kings in heaven
and how they're so proud of all these workers down here.
And no doubt, many of them were involved in the project.
We think of the workers here on earth,
but how about the workers in heaven?
They may have been involved in more than a few times
with safety issues, with legal matters,
so Jehovah was proud of everyone,
his universal family, both in heaven and on earth
with these projects.
I feel that it's going to build up the spirituality
of our brothers and sisters as they come
and as we know they're coming from all over the world.
And that's only going to further advance the work.
These buildings are beautiful
and it's a beautiful setting
that brings praise to Jehovah.
But what will bring the greatest praise
is how these buildings, these tools will be used
to honor his name, to bring attention to his kingdom,
to spearhead the preaching work.
What these buildings will help the governing body accomplish
will bring the greatest praise to Jehovah.
So now we will be passing out those tests.
Now, now is the time for an interactive part of our program
where we have an opportunity to raise our voices
in praise to Jehovah.
So if you'd like to stand if you're able,
we're going to sing our new dedication song at this time.
And remember, that's entitled A Place
that Will Bring You Praise.
What a beautiful song, sung beautifully.
If you'd like to take your seats,
we've now arrived at the time
a highlight of our program, The Dedication Talk.
And this is going to be given to us
by the longest serving member of the current governing body
for the Garrett Losh.
And the title of his talk, Expansion,
that glorifies Jehovah.
Modern day worship of Jehovah began in a small way.
It calls to mind the scripture that says,
according to Zechariah 4, 10,
who has despised the day of small beginnings?
What is the context of the scripture?
In the year 537 before our common era,
Jehovah moved Persian King Cyrus,
who had conquered Babylon to release the Israelites
that were held captive there for 70 years,
opening the way for them to return to Jerusalem and Judah.
They were to restore true worship
and rebuild the temple that Nebuchadnezzar had destroyed.
How many exiles returned to Jerusalem from Babylon
in 537 BCE, according to Ezra 4.1, about 50,000.
A footnote in the sixth edition of Isaac Lee's Bible translation
suggests that including women and children,
the number amounted to about 200,000.
In the seventh month of the year 537,
the altar was set up and in the following year 536,
the foundation of the new temple was laid.
But after laying the foundation,
they neglected to rebuild the temple on that foundation.
Enemies around about also discouraged them from doing so.
The enemies succeeded to place a ban on the work
about 15 years later in 522 before common era.
Two years after that in 520,
stirred up by the prophet's haggai and Zachariah,
governance the robbable and Joshua,
the high priest courageously resumed the construction
of the temple despite the ban.
Jehovah proclaimed that the hands of the robbable
have laid the foundation of this house
and his own hands will finish it.
For who has despised the day of small beginnings?
Zachariah 4, 9, and 10.
The rebuilding of Jehovah's temple at Jerusalem
had a modest beginning, yes,
but it was not to be despised.
After all, it involved true worship,
pure worship of Jehovah.
520 BCE saw this day of small beginnings,
but in 515 BCE, 22 years after the return from Babylon
and five years after the construction project was resumed,
the temple was completed.
The former exiles held the inauguration,
or we could say, dedication of this house with joy.
It is verse 6, 13 through 16.
And this resulted in Jehovah's praise.
He was glorified by the rebuilt temple.
There were also small beginnings
for the Christian congregation at Pentecost 33
of our common era.
And Jesus related this illustration in Matthew chapter 13
verses 31 and 32.
The kingdom of the heavens is like a mustard grain
that a man took and planted in his field.
It is, in fact, the tiniest of all the seeds,
but when it has grown,
it's the largest of the vegetable plants
and becomes a tree so that the birds of heaven
come and find lodging among its branches.
What's the meaning of Jesus illustration
of the mustard grain?
The grain itself represents the kingdom message,
as well as what results from the preaching
of that message, the Christian congregation.
Like the mustard grain that is the tiniest of all the seeds,
the Christian congregation had small beginnings
in 33 of our common era.
However, within a few decades,
the congregation grew rapidly.
It expanded beyond all expectations.
Jesus tells us that the birds of heaven
were able to find lodging among its branches.
These figurative birds picture right-hearted individuals
who find spiritual food, shade, and shelter
within the Christian congregation.
There were also small beginnings in modern times.
Consider our first headquarters.
In modern times, the Bible students, as we were called,
had headquarters offices first at 101 Fifth Avenue in Pittsburgh
and thereafter at 44 Federal Street, Allegheny, Pennsylvania.
By the late 1880s, they built their own structure.
Completed in 1889 at Arch Street,
it was known as the Bible House.
Due to continued expansion,
headquarters was transferred to Brooklyn, New York
in the years 1908, 1909.
In 1908, the old Plymouth Bethel,
13 through 76th Street, Brooklyn, was purchased.
It belonged to the Plymouth Congregational Church.
Also, 124 Columbia Heights, close by,
was purchased from the Plymouth Church.
It soon became the new home of our headquarters,
staff of at that time, 30 persons.
And they called it Bethel, meaning House of God.
Bethel was the name the Plymouth Church
had given to their building in Hick Street.
The remodeled Hick Street building
then became known as the Brooklyn Tabernacle.
It housed offices and an auditorium.
On January 31, 1909, 350 persons were present
for the dedication of the new headquarters.
But there were also small beginnings in a different sense,
in 1919 of our common era.
The statement in Zechariah 410
about small beginnings applied after
the Israelites had returned from Babylon.
Was there a parallel in modern times?
Yes.
In our century, for Jehovah's,
in the 90 Christians, it was a day of small beginnings
in 1919 when they were completely freed
from domination by Babylon, the great,
the world, conglomerate of false religion,
in order to restore true worship.
Already in the years before,
they had progressively cleansed themselves
from Babylon, the great.
From 1914 to 1919, the brothers lived through a number
of crises and tests.
But this came to an end in 1919.
The memorial of Christ's death was celebrated
on Sunday, April 13, 1919,
with 17,961 attending in many lands.
This was, of course, a lot less than the number
of returnees from literal Babylon.
And of these 18,000, about 4,000
also reported field service.
Many looked down on the brothers.
Yes, there were, again, small beginnings,
but still they were approved by Jehovah,
and therefore he caused expansion ever since.
There's expansion in the material sense.
In order to meet together in worship,
last year about 1,000 properties were purchased
and new kingdom halls constructed on it.
In addition, there were many more
where major or minor renovations were done.
Ranch offices are being expanded
or newly built remote translation offices,
Bible schools, facilities and assembly halls.
In the United States, we have now 47
active assembly halls.
Also, there is expansion in numbers.
In the Democratic Republic of Congo,
there were almost 1.2 million
who attended the memorial this year.
In Mexico, without Central America,
there were about 2.2 million who attended.
Worldwide, about 20 million attended
the memorial of Christ's death last year.
Each weekend, an average of 5,300 new ones
are getting baptized and becoming our brothers and sisters,
our worldwide family and brotherhood grows.
But our numerical expansion in itself
is not proof that we have the truth.
Other religions have many more members
and some grow quickly.
There are about 1.5 billion Muslims in the world,
second only to the number of name Christians,
but numbers alone prove nothing.
Truth is not measured in numbers,
but the combination of truth-teaching, true love,
high moral standard, neutrality,
caring and sanctifying God's holy name,
together with the increase,
that does prove beyond doubt
that Jehovah has chosen us as his people.
In Isaiah chapter 60, verse 22,
there's this prophecy that was foretold
and it says,
the little one will become 1,000
and the small one, a mighty nation.
I myself, Jehovah, will speed it up in its own time.
Who is that mighty nation?
It's the great crowd and the anointed together.
They constitute a combined mighty nation.
Although they are relatively few
when compared to the present total world population
of more than 7.5 billion as of March this year.
Many who visit us at Warwick, Walkill or Patterson say,
oh, you live here like in Paradise
and those saying this may have in mind
the loving fellowship that we enjoy
and also the beautiful surroundings.
And the fact is that we do live in a Paradise,
a spiritual Paradise.
But what about you visitors
and all those who are watching this program
by streaming and otherwise?
The good news is, you are also in the spiritual Paradise.
All our worldwide brotherhood lives
in this spiritual Paradise.
Now what is the spiritual Paradise?
It involves our relationship with Jehovah.
It involves the spiritual food
that we enjoy searched by the faithful's laity.
It also involves the loving relationship
with our brothers in the congregation
and our worldwide brotherhood.
It includes personal blessings from Jehovah
that he bestows upon us in everyday life.
The spiritual Paradise is the secure, spiritually
prosperous environment or realm of activity
in which we worship Jehovah.
No matter where we live on Earth,
we are in this Paradise as long
as we actively support the worship of Jehovah
and Endeavour to display the new personality.
The spiritual Paradise began in a limited way
in 33 of our common era at Pentecost.
It underwent changes during the centuries
but was restored in 1919.
The spiritual Paradise relates to the divine approval
of the anointed that became evident that year 1919.
In comparison with the first century,
the anointed enjoy increased spiritual prosperity
since that time.
And since 1930s, those with an earthly hope
also entered the spiritual Paradise.
And ultimately, the spiritual Paradise
will be in full existence and perfection
in the new world.
Do we appreciate that spiritual Paradise?
Satan will try to destroy our spiritual Paradise.
He thinks he can succeed because we seem vulnerable.
He may try to disrupt the flow of spiritual food
or break up our unity,
or stop us from zealously preaching
all elements of the spiritual Paradise.
Through political governments,
he will try to face true worshipers
and true worship from the earth.
But he will not succeed.
He will be thrown into an abyss for thousand years
and after that he will be crushed out of existence.
What about the governments that he controls now?
They will already be crushed in Armageddon forever.
The Messianic Kingdom will take control of the earth
that eventually will become a perfect literal Paradise
and then the spiritual Paradise
and the physical Paradise will exist concurrently.
The expansion of the spiritual Paradise
since 1919 was paralleled by material expansion.
Let me take you back on history lane.
First, let's talk about our printing efforts.
1920, we started with a rotary press at Middle Avenue, New York.
1922, the printer was relocated to 18 Concord Street.
From 1987 to 1986,
additional printer buildings were bought and erected on Adam Street.
But what about residence and office expansion?
On October 10, 1960, there was a dedication
of a new residence and office building at the 107 Columbia Heights.
630 brothers attended in the ground floor Kingdom Hall.
The new building, Brother France, said,
reminds us of the psalmist words
that everyone in Jehovah's Temple would speak his glory.
1969, the 119 Columbia Heights Residence
was built and dedicated on May 2.
In the same year, a complex was bought from
squib and suns pharmaceutical
and it served as world headquarters
until we moved here to Warwick.
The address was 2530 Columbia Heights
and it was dedicated on March 15, 1982.
Later, buildings number 48 and 50 were also joined
to the number 30 building.
Close by is the 85 J Street Lot,
a whole city block that was used for parking.
Then September 18, 1995, there was another important dedication program.
17 residences had been added since the previous dedication
of the Bethel Residence on May 2, 1969.
Among the added residences, there was the Towers Hotel
that we bought in 1975, the Boston Hotel,
Standys Hotel, Slyver Building, the 108-Joura-Lemen Building,
the 30-story San Street Building and the 97 Columbia Heights Building
formerly, there was the Margaret Hotel on the property.
The 360-Fermans Street Building,
which housed our shipping department and some other departments,
was purchased by us on March 15, 1983 and totally renovated.
It had a million square feet of floor space.
As of this date, most of our properties almost all of them
have been already sold and this more than covered the expenses
needed to build headquarters here.
Excuse me?
Well, what about expansion at Wal-Kill?
In 1963, the farm at Wal-Kill was purchased from brothers.
75 miles or 120 kilometers away from New York.
New residence buildings were completed in 1968,
71 and 73.
A large printer was eventually built, 73 and expanded in 1975.
In 2004, printing in New York was discontinued
and all printing was consolidated at Wal-Kill.
On May 15, 2005, there was the dedication program
for the expanded Wal-Kill complex and facilities.
Today, we also dedicate a new residence,
new parking garage and new office building at Wal-Kill,
as well as the Montgomery Warehouse and two nearby hotels
and diners that you have seen before in the video.
Wal-Kill has become the national headquarters
for the United States branch.
And most of the branch committee members live at Wal-Kill.
Warwick is the worldwide headquarters, so that's the difference.
But there was also a complex built-ed Patterson in the mid-1990s
with offices, residences, and theocratic schools.
And on May 17 and following days, 1999
was the dedication program.
Recently, the Mount Ibo video studios on Route 22,
close to Patterson, were added and another building.
Now, Patterson is also considered as part of world headquarters.
Also, the Tuxedo building that we bought from a paper company
and where our broadcasting studio is now
is part of world headquarters.
It's situated just about 10 minutes from here
on the same country road.
Finally, we also dedicated the river crest, a complex that
was bought at Fiskill, where several hundred specialized
live.
Today, we will focus on the dedication of our beautiful world
headquarters, complex at Warwick.
Now, why was it built here?
Well, we trust that it was Jehovah that
wanted us to build it here.
Well, what we learned from ancient times
is that according to 2nd Kings, 2327, that Jehovah
was the one who chose Jerusalem as a center of worship.
And in our time, our world headquarters
is a center that promotes true worship worldwide.
And we believe it was chosen by Jehovah.
All the expansion that we talked about glorifies Jehovah.
The Apostle Paul had the right attitude.
He wrote in 1 Thessalonians 2 6,
nor have we been seeking glory from men.
Yes, we seek Jehovah's glory, not our own glory.
He is the one that caused and blessed
the construction of our complexes.
I'm sure you agree.
Jehovah is the one who blessed the rebuilding
of the physical temple in the times of the rubble.
And Jehovah said back then, according to I say, 60 verse 7,
I will beautify my glorious house.
Now, the prophecy about the glorious house
in our time refers not to the literal structures
of world headquarters, but to our spiritual temple.
Many would come, according to prophecy,
and worship in that spiritual temple.
It is a figurative house of prayer for all the nations,
according to Isaiah 56 verse 7.
Revelation 7.9 prophesies about a great crowd out
of all the nations.
Now, what is their role and position?
Well, let's look at it in the Bible in Revelation 7.
And in verse 9, it says, after this I saw and looked
a great crowd, which no man was able to number
out of all nations and tribes and peoples and tongues,
standing before the throne and before the land,
dressed in white robes, and there were palm branches
in their hands.
It says that they stand before the throne of God.
Does this mean that they go to heaven?
No.
The earth is called God's footstool.
Isaiah 66 verse 1.
So even on earth, the great crowd stands
before the throne of Jehovah.
The great crowd consists of Christians
with the hope to live forever and paradise on earth.
Revelation 7.15 says about them.
They are rendering him sacred service day and night
where in front of the temple, no, it says, in his temple.
Where exactly is the great crowd serving?
Yes, all of us, no matter what hope we have,
served Jehovah in the spiritual temple,
because we all worship Jehovah based on Jesus' sacrifice.
So what is the spiritual temple?
True or false?
It's the same as the spiritual paradise, false?
Or it refers to a 90 Christians, false again.
The temples in Biber Times constituted a provision
or arrangement of worshipping Jehovah.
So the spiritual temple is also an arrangement of worship
based on Jesus' perfect ransom sacrifice,
and all that worship Jehovah based on his sacrifice
are in the spiritual temple.
Now, the spiritual paradise, on the other hand,
refers to a condition that allows us to serve Jehovah
with his approval and in peace with our brothers.
We can enhance the beauty of the spiritual paradise
and extend its borders by making disciples
and also by displaying the Christian personality.
All in the spiritual paradise,
seeing Jehovah's praise without let up,
it is as if they preach day and night.
I say, 62, 6 goes on to say,
continuously all day long and all night long,
they should not be silent.
You who make mention of Jehovah do not rest.
As we are determined not to be silent,
not to rest mentioning Jehovah.
In chapter 6, 6 in Isaiah,
we read, they will proclaim the praises of Jehovah
by preaching the good news and our expressions
in Kingdom Halls.
We all contribute to Jehovah's praise.
Praising Jehovah is one of the primary objectives
of our meeting attendance and our preaching activity.
We understand that we do not primarily preach
to save people's lives.
Jehovah's praise is more important
than the salvation of people.
Why?
Because Jehovah is more important than people.
In Hebrews 13, verse 15, it says,
through him Christ,
let us always offer to God a sacrifice of praise.
That is the fruit of our lips
that make public declaration to his name.
Nobody can stop the expansion.
Even dictatorial governments,
including communist governments,
could not stop the expansion of God's organization.
Hitler could not, Stalin could not,
Trujillo in the Dominican Republic, Republic,
could not Mussolini in Italy, could not,
Turchesco of Romania, could not,
Mao Zedun, could not,
and the Hodja dictator of communist Albania could not.
Nobody can, because Jehovah is with us.
What about the former Soviet Union
that included Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, and Russia?
In 1991, there were less than 50,000 publishers
in the former Soviet Union.
Now, they are approaching 400,000 publishers.
Imagine that increase of expansion.
Within the period of 1991 to 1998,
a total of 220,492 were baptized
in the former Soviet Union.
In 1990, in Kiev, the capital of Ukraine,
there was just one congregation.
Now, there are about 75.
1993 saw the largest baptism of true Christians ever.
It happened also in Kiev, Ukraine, at the convention.
7,402 were baptized.
Restrictions cannot stop the work.
Jehovah promised,
I will oppose those who oppose you
and I will save my own sons.
I say, 49,24,25.
Shortly before Armageddon prophecy shows
we will be attacked by a coalition of nations
or governments directed by Satan and the demons.
We do not need to fear, though,
Jehovah will protect his people during the great tribulation
and it stands to reason
that he will also protect the physical headquarters.
In Zechariah 2.8, he says,
whoever touches you touches the pupil of my eye.
Zechariah 2.5,
and I will become to her, Declare, Jehovah,
a wall of fire all around in protection
and I will become the glory in her midst.
Yes, our headquarters bring glory to Jehovah.
These headquarters facilities and related buildings
were built to glorify and praise Jehovah.
I say, 43, 21 says,
the people whom I formed for myself, what for?
So that they might declare my praise.
I say, 43, 21, go to remember the text.
It shows that the purpose of Jehovah has formed us
as his people is to glorify and praise him.
And so what is the purpose of the Christian congregation,
general, well, again, to bring praise to Jehovah?
What's the purpose of four-week headquarters
to praise Jehovah?
Ephesians 1, 12 encourages us to serve
for the praise of his glory.
May this new complex and the other buildings
that we dedicate today glorify and praise our dear Heavenly Father,
Jehovah.
It is appropriate now that we say a dedication prayer
to dedicate all buildings that have not been dedicated yet.
And Brother Leon Viver, who serves on the branch committee
in the United States, will now represent us in prayer.
With this prayer and your consent,
I now declare all our new buildings
as dedicated to Jehovah.
And we thank all of you for your contributions
in various ways, manual labor, financial contributions,
and prayers.
Now, what is the opposite of a day of small beginnings?
The day of a big finish?
Well, is the dedication of our headquarters
the big finish or ending?
No ending is in sight.
It is all relative.
In the new world, we might even consider
the dedication of warwick as a small beginning.
In comparison, with a huge work that will be accomplished
in paradise to teach billions,
because billions will be resurrected.
Isaiah 119 says, the earth will certainly be filled
with the knowledge of Jehovah as the waters cover the sea.
Yes, we have a glorious God and a Jehovah has a glorious name.
We have a glorious good news
and we have a glorious hope for the future.
When Solomon inaugurated the temple,
the glory of Jehovah filled the house.
Today, the spiritual temple
in which millions of us find themselves in
is also filled with Jehovah's glory.
In Isaiah 26 verse 12, it says,
Old Jehovah, you will grant us peace
because everything we have done,
you have accomplished for us.
Yeah, we want to give credit and praise to Jehovah God.
Even oposes come to realize that
Jehovah's blessing was involved in the construction.
As was the case in the days of Nehemiah.
In 616 says, they realized the oposers
that it was with our God's help that this work had been done.
And this is in line with 1st Peter 4, 11,
so that in all things, God may be glorified
through Jesus Christ, the glory and the might
are his forever and ever amen.
Revelation 5, 13 agrees with this, saying,
To the one sitting on the throne
and to the Lamb be the blessing
and the honor and the glory and the might forever and ever.
Hallelujah.
Thank you very much, Brother Lush,
for helping us to focus on the real meaning
of the dedication of these facilities.
The thousands that attended in person
are retired in for that event,
thoroughly enjoyed the dedication program.
And now millions more of you have been able
to enjoy the same experience.
Well, I know, I know you can't wait
to see the rest of the program.
So I'm happy to inform you that the spiritual portion
of the annual meeting program
will be posted later this month
and two installments on the video
on demand section of our site.
Part two will be posted on Monday, January 15th.
Part three is to be posted on Monday, January 29th.
So by the end of the month,
you will have heard talks from five members
of the governing body.
We are well fed spiritually, that is for sure.
Well, that's all for now.
This program is from the studio of JW Broadcasting
at the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.